docs/installation.rst, before:

Installation
================

Prerequisites
-------------

* If you are new to Mozilla or the A-Team, read the `A-Team Bootcamp`_.
* Install Git_, Virtualbox_ and Vagrant_ 1.5+ (recent versions recommended).
* Clone the `treeherder repo`_ from Github.
* Windows only: Ensure MSYS ssh (ships with Git for Windows) is on the PATH, so Vagrant can find it (using PuTTY is more hassle).

Setting up Vagrant
------------------

* Open a shell, cd into the root of the Treeherder repository, and type:

  .. code-block:: bash

     > vagrant up

  It will typically take 5 to 30 minutes for the vagrant up to complete, depending on your network performance. If you experience any errors, see the :ref:`troubleshooting page <troubleshooting-vagrant>`.

* While the previous command is running, use the time to add this line to your **host** machine's /etc/hosts:

  .. code-block:: bash

     # Copy this line verbatim (do not adjust the IP)
     192.168.33.10    local.treeherder.mozilla.org

* Once the virtual machine is set up, connect to it using:

  .. code-block:: bash

     > vagrant ssh

  A python virtual environment will be activated on login, and the working directory will be the treeherder source directory shared from the host machine.

* For the full list of available Vagrant commands (for example, suspending the VM when you are finished for the day), see their `command line documentation`_.

  .. _`command line documentation`: http://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/cli/

* If you just wish to :ref:`run the tests <running-tests>`, you can stop now without performing the remaining steps.

Starting a local Treeherder instance
------------------------------------

* Start a gunicorn instance inside the Vagrant VM, to serve the static UI and API requests:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./bin/run_gunicorn

  Or for development you can use the django runserver instead of gunicorn:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./manage.py runserver

  this is more convenient because it automatically refreshes every time there's a change in the code. However it can consume too much memory when under load (eg due to data ingestion), causing the OS to kill it.

* Visit http://local.treeherder.mozilla.org in your browser. Note: There will be no data to display until the ingestion tasks are run.

Running the ingestion tasks
---------------------------

Ingestion tasks populate the database with version control push logs, queued/running/completed buildbot jobs & output from log parsing, as well as maintain a list of job etas and cache of intermittent failure bugs. To run these:

* Ensure the django runserver or gunicorn instance is running first (see "Starting a local Treeherder instance" above).

* In another Vagrant SSH session, start up a celery worker to process async tasks:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ celery -A treeherder worker -B --concurrency 5

  The "-B" option tells the celery worker to startup a beat service, so that periodic tasks can be executed.
  You only need one worker with the beat service enabled. Multiple beat services will result in periodic tasks being executed multiple times.

Ingesting a single push (at a time)
-----------------------------------

Alternatively, instead of running a full ingestion task, you can process just
the jobs associated with any single push generated in the last 4 hours
(builds-4h_), in a synchronous manner. This is ideal for testing. For example:

  .. _builds-4h: http://builddata.pub.build.mozilla.org/buildjson/

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./manage.py ingest_push mozilla-inbound 63f8a47cfdf5

If running this locally, replace `63f8a47cfdf5` with a recent revision (= pushed within 
the last four hours) on mozilla-inbound.

You can further restrict the amount of data to a specific type of job
with the "--filter-job-group" parameter. For example, to process only
talos jobs for a particular push, try:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./manage.py ingest_push --filter-job-group T mozilla-inbound 63f8a47cfdf

Note that some types of data (e.g. performance) are not processed immediately, and you
will thus need to start a celery worker to handle them. You don't need
to enable the beat service for this though, so you can omit the "-B":

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ celery -A treeherder worker


.. _A-Team Bootcamp: https://ateam-bootcamp.readthedocs.org
.. _Git: https://git-scm.com
.. _Vagrant: https://www.vagrantup.com
.. _Virtualbox: https://www.virtualbox.org
.. _treeherder repo: https://github.com/mozilla/treeherder

Commit message:

Bug 1221536 - Docs: Emphasise starting the worker before ingest_push
If the worker is not running, any `apply_async()` calls are silently
thrown away, due to `ingest_push`'s use of `CELERY_ALWAYS_EAGER` and:
https://github.com/celery/celery/issues/2910

As such, running the worker after ingest_push doesn't help (since the
rabbitmq queues are empty) and so if people are interested in perf/log
data, then they must start the worker first instead.

docs/installation.rst, after:

Installation
================

Prerequisites
-------------

* If you are new to Mozilla or the A-Team, read the `A-Team Bootcamp`_.
* Install Git_, Virtualbox_ and Vagrant_ 1.5+ (recent versions recommended).
* Clone the `treeherder repo`_ from Github.
* Windows only: Ensure MSYS ssh (ships with Git for Windows) is on the PATH, so Vagrant can find it (using PuTTY is more hassle).

Setting up Vagrant
------------------

* Open a shell, cd into the root of the Treeherder repository, and type:

  .. code-block:: bash

     > vagrant up

  It will typically take 5 to 30 minutes for the vagrant up to complete, depending on your network performance. If you experience any errors, see the :ref:`troubleshooting page <troubleshooting-vagrant>`.

* While the previous command is running, use the time to add this line to your **host** machine's /etc/hosts:

  .. code-block:: bash

     # Copy this line verbatim (do not adjust the IP)
     192.168.33.10    local.treeherder.mozilla.org

* Once the virtual machine is set up, connect to it using:

  .. code-block:: bash

     > vagrant ssh

  A python virtual environment will be activated on login, and the working directory will be the treeherder source directory shared from the host machine.

* For the full list of available Vagrant commands (for example, suspending the VM when you are finished for the day), see their `command line documentation`_.

  .. _`command line documentation`: http://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/cli/

* If you just wish to :ref:`run the tests <running-tests>`, you can stop now without performing the remaining steps.

Starting a local Treeherder instance
------------------------------------

* Start a gunicorn instance inside the Vagrant VM, to serve the static UI and API requests:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./bin/run_gunicorn

  Or for development you can use the django runserver instead of gunicorn:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./manage.py runserver

  this is more convenient because it automatically refreshes every time there's a change in the code. However it can consume too much memory when under load (eg due to data ingestion), causing the OS to kill it.

* Visit http://local.treeherder.mozilla.org in your browser. Note: There will be no data to display until the ingestion tasks are run.

Running the ingestion tasks
---------------------------

Ingestion tasks populate the database with version control push logs, queued/running/completed buildbot jobs & output from log parsing, as well as maintain a list of job etas and cache of intermittent failure bugs. To run these:

* Ensure the django runserver or gunicorn instance is running first (see "Starting a local Treeherder instance" above).

* In another Vagrant SSH session, start up a celery worker to process async tasks:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ celery -A treeherder worker -B --concurrency 5

  The "-B" option tells the celery worker to startup a beat service, so that periodic tasks can be executed.
  You only need one worker with the beat service enabled. Multiple beat services will result in periodic tasks being executed multiple times.

Ingesting a single push (at a time)
-----------------------------------

Alternatively, instead of running a full ingestion task, you can process just
the jobs associated with any single push generated in the last 4 hours
(builds-4h_), in a synchronous manner. This is ideal for testing. For example:

  .. _builds-4h: http://builddata.pub.build.mozilla.org/buildjson/

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./manage.py ingest_push mozilla-inbound 63f8a47cfdf5

If running this locally, replace `63f8a47cfdf5` with a recent revision (= pushed within 
the last four hours) on mozilla-inbound.

You can further restrict the amount of data to a specific type of job
with the "--filter-job-group" parameter. For example, to process only
talos jobs for a particular push, try:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ ./manage.py ingest_push --filter-job-group T mozilla-inbound 63f8a47cfdf

Note that some types of data (e.g. performance, log error summaries) are not processed
immediately, and you will thus need to start a celery worker *before* running `ingest_push`
to handle them. You don't need to enable the beat service for this though, so you can
omit the `-B`:

  .. code-block:: bash

     (venv)vagrant@local:~/treeherder$ celery -A treeherder worker


.. _A-Team Bootcamp: https://ateam-bootcamp.readthedocs.org
.. _Git: https://git-scm.com
.. _Vagrant: https://www.vagrantup.com
.. _Virtualbox: https://www.virtualbox.org
.. _treeherder repo: https://github.com/mozilla/treeherder
