docs/submitting_data.rst, before:

Submitting Data
===============

Python Client Library
---------------------

We provide a library, called treeherder-client, to support data
submission to the treeherder service. It is maintained inside the
treeherder repository, but you can install your own copy from pypi
using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install treeherder-client

There are two types of data structures you can submit with this
library: job and resultset collections. The library provides methods
for building a data structure that treeherder will accept. Data
structures can be extended with new properties as needed, there is a
minimal validation protocol applied that confirms the bare minimum
parts of the structures are defined.

Resultset Collections
---------------------

Resultset collections contain meta data associated with a github pull request
or a push to mercurial or any event that requires tests to be run on a
repository.  The most critical part of each resultset is the `revision_hash`.
This is used as an identifier to associate test job data with. It can be any
unique string of 50 characters at most. A resultset collection has the
following data structure:

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            # unique identifier for a result set, can be any unique character string no longer than 50 characters
            'revision_hash': '45f8637cb9f78f19cb8463ff174e81756805d8cf',
            'author': 'somebody@somewhere.com',
            'push_timestamp': 1384353511,
            'type': 'push',
            # a list of revisions associated with the resultset. There should be at least
            # one.
            'revisions': [
                {
                    'comment': 'Bug 936711 - Fix crash which happened at disabling Bluetooth...',
                    'revision': 'cdfe03e77e66',
                    'repository': 'test_treeherder',
                    'author': 'Some Person <sperson@someplace.com>'
                    },
                    ...
                ]
            }
        }
    ]

Job Collections
---------------

Job collections can contain test results from any kind of test. The
`revision_hash` provided should match the associated `revision_hash` in the
resultset structure. The `job_guid` provided can be any unique string of 50
characters at most. A job collection has the following data structure.

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            'project': 'mozilla-inbound',

            'revision_hash': '4317d9e5759d58852485a7a808095a44bc806e19',

            'job': {

                'job_guid': 'd22c74d4aa6d2a1dcba96d95dccbd5fdca70cf33',

                'product_name': 'spidermonkey',

                'reason': 'scheduler',
                'who': 'spidermonkey_info__mozilla-inbound-warnaserr',

                'desc': 'Linux x86-64 mozilla-inbound spidermonkey_info-warnaserr build',

                'name': 'SpiderMonkey --enable-sm-fail-on-warnings Build',

                # The symbol representing the job displayed in
                # treeherder.allizom.org
                'job_symbol': 'e',

                # The symbol representing the job group in
                # treeherder.allizom.org
                'group_symbol': 'SM',
                'group_name': 'SpiderMonkey',

                'submit_timestamp': 1387221298,
                'start_timestamp': 1387221345,
                'end_timestamp': 1387222817,

                'state': 'completed',
                'result': 'success',

                'machine': 'bld-linux64-ec2-104',
                'build_platform': {
                    'platform':'linux64', 'os_name': 'linux', 'architecture': 'x86_64'
                    },
                'machine_platform': {
                    'platform': 'linux64', 'os_name': 'linux', 'architecture': 'x86_64'
                    },

                'option_collection': {'opt': True},

                # jobs can belong to different tiers
                # setting the tier here will determine which tier the job
                # belongs to.  However, if a job is set as Tier of 1, but
                # belongs to the Tier 2 profile on the server, it will still
                # be saved as Tier 2.
                'tier': 2,

                # the ``name`` of the log can be the default of "buildbot_text"
                # however, you can use a custom name.  See below.
                'log_references': [
                    {
                        'url': 'http://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/spidermonkey/...',
                        'name': 'buildbot_text'
                        }
                    ],

                # The artifact can contain any kind of structured data associated with a test.
                'artifacts': [{
                    'type': 'json',
                    'name': '',
                    'blob': { my json content here}
                }],

                # List of job guids that were coalesced to this job
                'coalesced': []
            },
            ...
    ]

see :ref:`custom-log-name` for more info.


Artifact Collections
--------------------

Artifact collections contain arbitrary data associated with a job. This is
usually a json blob of structured data produced by the build system during the
job execution.

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            'type': 'json',
            'name': 'my-artifact-name',
            # blob can be any kind of structured data
            'blob': { 'stuff': [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] },
            'job_guid': 'd22c74d4aa6d2a1dcba96d95dccbd5fdca70cf33'
        }
    ]

Usage
-----

If you want to use `TreeherderResultSetCollection` to build up the resultset
data structures to send, do something like this.

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import (TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderClientError,
                          TreeherderResultSetCollection)


    trsc = TreeherderResultSetCollection()

    for data in dataset:

        trs = trsc.get_resultset()

        trs.add_push_timestamp( data['push_timestamp'] )
        trs.add_revision_hash( data['revision_hash'] )
        trs.add_type( data['type'] )
        trs.add_artifact( 'push_data', 'push', { 'stuff':[1,2,3,4,5] } )

        for revision in data['revisions']:

            tr = trs.get_revision()

            tr.add_revision( revision['revision'] )
            tr.add_author( revision['author'] )
            tr.add_comment( revision['comment'] )
            tr.add_repository( revision['repository'] )

            trs.add_revision(tr)

        trsc.add(trs)

    # Send the collection to treeherder

    # The OAuth key and secret for your project should be supplied to you by the
    # treeherder administrator.
    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)

    # Post the result collection to a project
    #
    # data structure validation is automatically performed here, if validation
    # fails a TreeherderClientError is raised
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', trc)

At any time in building a data structure, you can examine what has been
created by looking at the `data` property.  You can also call the `validate`
method at any time before sending a collection.  All treeherder data classes
have `validate` methods that can be used for testing.  The `validate` method
is called on every structure in a collection when `post_collection` is
called. If validation fails a `TreeherderClientError` is raised.

If you want to use `TreeherderJobCollection` to build up the job data
structures to send, do something like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import (TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderClientError,
                          TreeherderJobCollection)

    tjc = TreeherderJobCollection()

    for data in dataset:

        tj = tjc.get_job()

        tj.add_revision_hash( data['revision_hash'] )
        tj.add_project( data['project'] )
        tj.add_coalesced_guid( data['coalesced'] )
        tj.add_job_guid( data['job_guid'] )
        tj.add_job_name( data['name'] )
        tj.add_job_symbol( data['job_symbol'] )
        tj.add_group_name( data['group_name'] )
        tj.add_group_symbol( data['group_symbol'] )
        tj.add_description( data['desc'] )
        tj.add_product_name( data['product_name'] )
        tj.add_state( data['state'] )
        tj.add_result( data['result'] )
        tj.add_reason( data['reason'] )
        tj.add_who( data['who'] )
        tj.add_tier( 1 )
        tj.add_submit_timestamp( data['submit_timestamp'] )
        tj.add_start_timestamp( data['start_timestamp'] )
        tj.add_end_timestamp( data['end_timestamp'] )
        tj.add_machine( data['machine'] )

        tj.add_build_info(
            data['build']['os_name'], data['build']['platform'], data['build']['architecture']
            )

        tj.add_machine_info(
            data['machine']['os_name'], data['machine']['platform'], data['machine']['architecture']
            )

        tj.add_option_collection( data['option_collection'] )

        tj.add_log_reference( 'buildbot_text', data['log_reference'] )

        # data['artifact'] is a list of artifacts
        for artifact_data in data['artifact']:
            tj.add_artifact(
                artifact_data['name'], artifact_data['type'], artifact_data['blob']
                )
        tjc.add(tj)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tjc)

If you want to use `TreeherderArtifactCollection` to build up the job
artifacts data structures to send, do something like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import (TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderClientError,
                          TreeherderArtifactCollection)

    tac = TreeherderArtifactCollection()

    for data in dataset:

        ta = tac.get_artifact()

        ta.add_blob( data['blob'] )
        ta.add_name( data['name'] )
        ta.add_type( data['type'] )
        ta.add_job_guid( data['job_guid'] )

        tac.add(ta)

    # Send the collection to treeherder
    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac)

If you don't want to use `TreeherderResultCollection` or
`TreeherderJobCollection` to build up the data structure to send, build the
data structures directly and add them to the collection.

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderResultSetCollection

    trc = TreeherderResultSetCollection()

    for resultset in resultset_data:
        trs = trc.get_resultset(resultset)

        # Add any additional data to trs.data here

        # add resultset to collection
        trc.add(trs)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', trc)

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderJobCollection

    tjc = TreeherderJobCollection()

    for job in job_data:
        tj = tjc.get_job(job)

        # Add any additional data to tj.data here

        # add job to collection
        tjc.add(tj)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tjc)

In the same way, if you don't want to use `TreeherderArtifactCollection` to
build up the data structure to send, build the data structures directly and
add them to the collection.

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderClient, TreeherderArtifactCollection

    tac = TreeherderArtifactCollection()

    for artifact in artifact_data:
        ta = tac.get_artifact(artifact)

        # Add any additional data to ta.data here

        # add artifact to collection
        tac.add(ta)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac)

Job artifacts format
--------------------

Artifacts can have name, type and blob. The blob property can contain any
valid data structure accordingly to type attribute.  For example if you use
the json type, your blob must be json-serializable to be valid.  The name
attribute can be any arbitrary string identifying the artifact.  Here is an
example of what a job artifact looks like in the context of a job object:

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            'project': 'mozilla-inbound',
            'revision_hash': '4317d9e5759d58852485a7a808095a44bc806e19',
            'job': {
                'job_guid': 'd22c74d4aa6d2a1dcba96d95dccbd5fdca70cf33',
                # ...
                # other job properties here
                # ...

                'artifacts': [
                {
                    "type": "json",
                    "name": "my first artifact",
                    'blob': {
                        k1: v1,
                        k2: v2,
                        ...
                    }
                },
                {
                    'type': 'json',
                    'name': 'my second artifact',
                    'blob': {
                        k1: v1,
                        k2: v2,
                        ...
                    }
                }
                ]
            }
        },
        ...
    ]

A special case of job artifact is a "Job Info" artifact. This kind of artifact
will be retrieved by the UI and rendered in the job detail panel. This
is what a Job Info artifact looks like:

.. code-block:: python

  {

    "blob": {
        "job_details": [
            {
                "url": "https://www.mozilla.org",
                "value": "website",
                "content_type": "link",
                "title": "Mozilla home page"
            },
            {
                "value": "bar",
                "content_type": "text",
                "title": "Foo"
            },
            {
                "value": "This is <strong>cool</strong>",
                "content_type": "raw_html",
                "title": "Cool title"
            }
        ],
    },
    "type": "json",
    "name": "Job Info"
  }

All the elements in the job_details attribute of this artifact have a
mandatory title attribute and a set of optional attributes depending on
`content_type`.  The `content_type` drives the way this kind of artifact
will be rendered. Here are the possible values:

* **Text** - This is the simplest content type you can render and is the one
  used by default if the content type specified is not recognised or is missing.

    This content type renders as:

    .. code-block:: html

      <label>{{title}}</label><span>{{value}}</span>

* **Link** - This content type renders as an anchor html tag with the
  following format:

    .. code-block:: html

      {{title}}: <a title="{{value}}" href="{{url}}" target="_blank">{{value}}</a>

* **Raw Html** - The last resource for when you need to show some formatted
  content.



Some Specific Collection POSTing Rules
--------------------------------------

Treeherder will detect what data is submitted in the ``TreeherderCollection``
and generate the necessary artifacts accordingly.  The outline below describes
what artifacts *Treeherder* will generate depending on what has been submitted.

See :ref:`schema_validation` for more info on validating some specialized JSON
data.

JobCollections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Via the ``/jobs`` endpoint:

1. Submit a Log URL with no ``parse_status`` or ``parse_status`` set to "pending"
    * This will generate ``text_log_summary`` and ``Bug suggestions`` artifacts
    * Current *Buildbot* workflow

2. Submit a Log URL with ``parse_status`` set to "parsed" and a ``text_log_summary`` artifact
    * Will generate a ``Bug suggestions`` artifact only
    * Desired future state of *Task Cluster*

3. Submit a Log URL with ``parse_status`` of "parsed", with ``text_log_summary`` and ``Bug suggestions`` artifacts
    * Will generate nothing


ArtifactCollections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Via the ``/artifact`` endpoint:

1. Submit a ``text_log_summary`` artifact
    * Will generate a ``Bug suggestions`` artifact if it does not already exist for that job.

2. Submit ``text_log_summary`` and ``Bug suggestions`` artifacts
    * Will generate nothing
    * This is *Treeherder's* current internal log parser workflow


.. _custom-log-name:

Specifying Custom Log Names
---------------------------

By default, the Log Viewer expects logs to have the name of ``buildbot_text``
at this time.  However, if you are supplying the ``text_log_summary`` artifact
yourself (rather than having it generated for you) you can specify a custom
log name.  You must specify the name in two places for this to work.

1. When you add the log reference to the job:

.. code-block:: python

    tj.add_log_reference( 'my_custom_log', data['log_reference'] )


2. In the ``text_log_summary`` artifact blob, specify the ``logname`` param.
   This artifact is what the Log Viewer uses to find the associated log lines
   for viewing.

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "blob":{
            "step_data": {
                "all_errors": [ ],
                "steps": [
                    {
                        "errors": [ ],
                        "name": "step",
                        "started_linenumber": 1,
                        "finished_linenumber": 1,
                        "finished": "2015-07-08 06:13:46",
                        "result": "success",
                        "duration": 2671,
                        "order": 0,
                        "error_count": 0
                    }
                ],
                "errors_truncated": false
            },
            "logurl": "https://example.com/mylog.log",
            "logname": "my_custom_log"
        },
        "type": "json",
        "id": 10577808,
        "name": "text_log_summary",
        "job_id": 1774360
    }

Authentication handling
-----------------------
Authentication in the client is handled by the TreeherderAuth class.
To create a TreeherderAuth instance you have to provide your oauth key, secret and the repository you want to post data to
(e.g. mozilla-central).

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderAuth

    auth = TreeherderAuth('my-key', 'my-secret', 'mozilla-central')

You can either pass the auth instance directly to the client if you want to use them globally:

.. code-block:: python

    auth = TreeherderAuth('my-key', 'my-secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac)

or to the post_collection method if you want to use the same client to submit data to different repositories:

.. code-block:: python

    auth = TreeherderAuth('my-key', 'my-secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org')
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac, auth=auth)

Commit message:

Bug 1213847 - Deprecate passing the auth object to the client's methods
Since with the new per-user Hawk credentials, the same auth object can
be used for the whole session, so should just be passed when
instantiating TreeherderClient.

docs/submitting_data.rst, after:

Submitting Data
===============

Python Client Library
---------------------

We provide a library, called treeherder-client, to support data
submission to the treeherder service. It is maintained inside the
treeherder repository, but you can install your own copy from pypi
using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install treeherder-client

There are two types of data structures you can submit with this
library: job and resultset collections. The library provides methods
for building a data structure that treeherder will accept. Data
structures can be extended with new properties as needed, there is a
minimal validation protocol applied that confirms the bare minimum
parts of the structures are defined.

Resultset Collections
---------------------

Resultset collections contain meta data associated with a github pull request
or a push to mercurial or any event that requires tests to be run on a
repository.  The most critical part of each resultset is the `revision_hash`.
This is used as an identifier to associate test job data with. It can be any
unique string of 50 characters at most. A resultset collection has the
following data structure:

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            # unique identifier for a result set, can be any unique character string no longer than 50 characters
            'revision_hash': '45f8637cb9f78f19cb8463ff174e81756805d8cf',
            'author': 'somebody@somewhere.com',
            'push_timestamp': 1384353511,
            'type': 'push',
            # a list of revisions associated with the resultset. There should be at least
            # one.
            'revisions': [
                {
                    'comment': 'Bug 936711 - Fix crash which happened at disabling Bluetooth...',
                    'revision': 'cdfe03e77e66',
                    'repository': 'test_treeherder',
                    'author': 'Some Person <sperson@someplace.com>'
                    },
                    ...
                ]
            }
        }
    ]

Job Collections
---------------

Job collections can contain test results from any kind of test. The
`revision_hash` provided should match the associated `revision_hash` in the
resultset structure. The `job_guid` provided can be any unique string of 50
characters at most. A job collection has the following data structure.

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            'project': 'mozilla-inbound',

            'revision_hash': '4317d9e5759d58852485a7a808095a44bc806e19',

            'job': {

                'job_guid': 'd22c74d4aa6d2a1dcba96d95dccbd5fdca70cf33',

                'product_name': 'spidermonkey',

                'reason': 'scheduler',
                'who': 'spidermonkey_info__mozilla-inbound-warnaserr',

                'desc': 'Linux x86-64 mozilla-inbound spidermonkey_info-warnaserr build',

                'name': 'SpiderMonkey --enable-sm-fail-on-warnings Build',

                # The symbol representing the job displayed in
                # treeherder.allizom.org
                'job_symbol': 'e',

                # The symbol representing the job group in
                # treeherder.allizom.org
                'group_symbol': 'SM',
                'group_name': 'SpiderMonkey',

                'submit_timestamp': 1387221298,
                'start_timestamp': 1387221345,
                'end_timestamp': 1387222817,

                'state': 'completed',
                'result': 'success',

                'machine': 'bld-linux64-ec2-104',
                'build_platform': {
                    'platform':'linux64', 'os_name': 'linux', 'architecture': 'x86_64'
                    },
                'machine_platform': {
                    'platform': 'linux64', 'os_name': 'linux', 'architecture': 'x86_64'
                    },

                'option_collection': {'opt': True},

                # jobs can belong to different tiers
                # setting the tier here will determine which tier the job
                # belongs to.  However, if a job is set as Tier of 1, but
                # belongs to the Tier 2 profile on the server, it will still
                # be saved as Tier 2.
                'tier': 2,

                # the ``name`` of the log can be the default of "buildbot_text"
                # however, you can use a custom name.  See below.
                'log_references': [
                    {
                        'url': 'http://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/spidermonkey/...',
                        'name': 'buildbot_text'
                        }
                    ],

                # The artifact can contain any kind of structured data associated with a test.
                'artifacts': [{
                    'type': 'json',
                    'name': '',
                    'blob': { my json content here}
                }],

                # List of job guids that were coalesced to this job
                'coalesced': []
            },
            ...
    ]

see :ref:`custom-log-name` for more info.


Artifact Collections
--------------------

Artifact collections contain arbitrary data associated with a job. This is
usually a json blob of structured data produced by the build system during the
job execution.

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            'type': 'json',
            'name': 'my-artifact-name',
            # blob can be any kind of structured data
            'blob': { 'stuff': [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] },
            'job_guid': 'd22c74d4aa6d2a1dcba96d95dccbd5fdca70cf33'
        }
    ]

Usage
-----

If you want to use `TreeherderResultSetCollection` to build up the resultset
data structures to send, do something like this.

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import (TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderClientError,
                          TreeherderResultSetCollection)


    trsc = TreeherderResultSetCollection()

    for data in dataset:

        trs = trsc.get_resultset()

        trs.add_push_timestamp( data['push_timestamp'] )
        trs.add_revision_hash( data['revision_hash'] )
        trs.add_type( data['type'] )
        trs.add_artifact( 'push_data', 'push', { 'stuff':[1,2,3,4,5] } )

        for revision in data['revisions']:

            tr = trs.get_revision()

            tr.add_revision( revision['revision'] )
            tr.add_author( revision['author'] )
            tr.add_comment( revision['comment'] )
            tr.add_repository( revision['repository'] )

            trs.add_revision(tr)

        trsc.add(trs)

    # Send the collection to treeherder

    # The OAuth key and secret for your project should be supplied to you by the
    # treeherder administrator.
    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)

    # Post the result collection to a project
    #
    # data structure validation is automatically performed here, if validation
    # fails a TreeherderClientError is raised
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', trc)

At any time in building a data structure, you can examine what has been
created by looking at the `data` property.  You can also call the `validate`
method at any time before sending a collection.  All treeherder data classes
have `validate` methods that can be used for testing.  The `validate` method
is called on every structure in a collection when `post_collection` is
called. If validation fails a `TreeherderClientError` is raised.

If you want to use `TreeherderJobCollection` to build up the job data
structures to send, do something like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import (TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderClientError,
                          TreeherderJobCollection)

    tjc = TreeherderJobCollection()

    for data in dataset:

        tj = tjc.get_job()

        tj.add_revision_hash( data['revision_hash'] )
        tj.add_project( data['project'] )
        tj.add_coalesced_guid( data['coalesced'] )
        tj.add_job_guid( data['job_guid'] )
        tj.add_job_name( data['name'] )
        tj.add_job_symbol( data['job_symbol'] )
        tj.add_group_name( data['group_name'] )
        tj.add_group_symbol( data['group_symbol'] )
        tj.add_description( data['desc'] )
        tj.add_product_name( data['product_name'] )
        tj.add_state( data['state'] )
        tj.add_result( data['result'] )
        tj.add_reason( data['reason'] )
        tj.add_who( data['who'] )
        tj.add_tier( 1 )
        tj.add_submit_timestamp( data['submit_timestamp'] )
        tj.add_start_timestamp( data['start_timestamp'] )
        tj.add_end_timestamp( data['end_timestamp'] )
        tj.add_machine( data['machine'] )

        tj.add_build_info(
            data['build']['os_name'], data['build']['platform'], data['build']['architecture']
            )

        tj.add_machine_info(
            data['machine']['os_name'], data['machine']['platform'], data['machine']['architecture']
            )

        tj.add_option_collection( data['option_collection'] )

        tj.add_log_reference( 'buildbot_text', data['log_reference'] )

        # data['artifact'] is a list of artifacts
        for artifact_data in data['artifact']:
            tj.add_artifact(
                artifact_data['name'], artifact_data['type'], artifact_data['blob']
                )
        tjc.add(tj)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tjc)

If you want to use `TreeherderArtifactCollection` to build up the job
artifacts data structures to send, do something like this:

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import (TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderClientError,
                          TreeherderArtifactCollection)

    tac = TreeherderArtifactCollection()

    for data in dataset:

        ta = tac.get_artifact()

        ta.add_blob( data['blob'] )
        ta.add_name( data['name'] )
        ta.add_type( data['type'] )
        ta.add_job_guid( data['job_guid'] )

        tac.add(ta)

    # Send the collection to treeherder
    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac)

If you don't want to use `TreeherderResultCollection` or
`TreeherderJobCollection` to build up the data structure to send, build the
data structures directly and add them to the collection.

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderResultSetCollection

    trc = TreeherderResultSetCollection()

    for resultset in resultset_data:
        trs = trc.get_resultset(resultset)

        # Add any additional data to trs.data here

        # add resultset to collection
        trc.add(trs)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', trc)

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderAuth, TreeherderClient, TreeherderJobCollection

    tjc = TreeherderJobCollection()

    for job in job_data:
        tj = tjc.get_job(job)

        # Add any additional data to tj.data here

        # add job to collection
        tjc.add(tj)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tjc)

In the same way, if you don't want to use `TreeherderArtifactCollection` to
build up the data structure to send, build the data structures directly and
add them to the collection.

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderClient, TreeherderArtifactCollection

    tac = TreeherderArtifactCollection()

    for artifact in artifact_data:
        ta = tac.get_artifact(artifact)

        # Add any additional data to ta.data here

        # add artifact to collection
        tac.add(ta)

    auth = TreeherderAuth('oauth_key', 'oauth_secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac)

Job artifacts format
--------------------

Artifacts can have name, type and blob. The blob property can contain any
valid data structure accordingly to type attribute.  For example if you use
the json type, your blob must be json-serializable to be valid.  The name
attribute can be any arbitrary string identifying the artifact.  Here is an
example of what a job artifact looks like in the context of a job object:

.. code-block:: python

    [
        {
            'project': 'mozilla-inbound',
            'revision_hash': '4317d9e5759d58852485a7a808095a44bc806e19',
            'job': {
                'job_guid': 'd22c74d4aa6d2a1dcba96d95dccbd5fdca70cf33',
                # ...
                # other job properties here
                # ...

                'artifacts': [
                {
                    "type": "json",
                    "name": "my first artifact",
                    'blob': {
                        k1: v1,
                        k2: v2,
                        ...
                    }
                },
                {
                    'type': 'json',
                    'name': 'my second artifact',
                    'blob': {
                        k1: v1,
                        k2: v2,
                        ...
                    }
                }
                ]
            }
        },
        ...
    ]

A special case of job artifact is a "Job Info" artifact. This kind of artifact
will be retrieved by the UI and rendered in the job detail panel. This
is what a Job Info artifact looks like:

.. code-block:: python

  {

    "blob": {
        "job_details": [
            {
                "url": "https://www.mozilla.org",
                "value": "website",
                "content_type": "link",
                "title": "Mozilla home page"
            },
            {
                "value": "bar",
                "content_type": "text",
                "title": "Foo"
            },
            {
                "value": "This is <strong>cool</strong>",
                "content_type": "raw_html",
                "title": "Cool title"
            }
        ],
    },
    "type": "json",
    "name": "Job Info"
  }

All the elements in the job_details attribute of this artifact have a
mandatory title attribute and a set of optional attributes depending on
`content_type`.  The `content_type` drives the way this kind of artifact
will be rendered. Here are the possible values:

* **Text** - This is the simplest content type you can render and is the one
  used by default if the content type specified is not recognised or is missing.

    This content type renders as:

    .. code-block:: html

      <label>{{title}}</label><span>{{value}}</span>

* **Link** - This content type renders as an anchor html tag with the
  following format:

    .. code-block:: html

      {{title}}: <a title="{{value}}" href="{{url}}" target="_blank">{{value}}</a>

* **Raw Html** - The last resource for when you need to show some formatted
  content.



Some Specific Collection POSTing Rules
--------------------------------------

Treeherder will detect what data is submitted in the ``TreeherderCollection``
and generate the necessary artifacts accordingly.  The outline below describes
what artifacts *Treeherder* will generate depending on what has been submitted.

See :ref:`schema_validation` for more info on validating some specialized JSON
data.

JobCollections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Via the ``/jobs`` endpoint:

1. Submit a Log URL with no ``parse_status`` or ``parse_status`` set to "pending"
    * This will generate ``text_log_summary`` and ``Bug suggestions`` artifacts
    * Current *Buildbot* workflow

2. Submit a Log URL with ``parse_status`` set to "parsed" and a ``text_log_summary`` artifact
    * Will generate a ``Bug suggestions`` artifact only
    * Desired future state of *Task Cluster*

3. Submit a Log URL with ``parse_status`` of "parsed", with ``text_log_summary`` and ``Bug suggestions`` artifacts
    * Will generate nothing


ArtifactCollections
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Via the ``/artifact`` endpoint:

1. Submit a ``text_log_summary`` artifact
    * Will generate a ``Bug suggestions`` artifact if it does not already exist for that job.

2. Submit ``text_log_summary`` and ``Bug suggestions`` artifacts
    * Will generate nothing
    * This is *Treeherder's* current internal log parser workflow


.. _custom-log-name:

Specifying Custom Log Names
---------------------------

By default, the Log Viewer expects logs to have the name of ``buildbot_text``
at this time.  However, if you are supplying the ``text_log_summary`` artifact
yourself (rather than having it generated for you) you can specify a custom
log name.  You must specify the name in two places for this to work.

1. When you add the log reference to the job:

.. code-block:: python

    tj.add_log_reference( 'my_custom_log', data['log_reference'] )


2. In the ``text_log_summary`` artifact blob, specify the ``logname`` param.
   This artifact is what the Log Viewer uses to find the associated log lines
   for viewing.

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "blob":{
            "step_data": {
                "all_errors": [ ],
                "steps": [
                    {
                        "errors": [ ],
                        "name": "step",
                        "started_linenumber": 1,
                        "finished_linenumber": 1,
                        "finished": "2015-07-08 06:13:46",
                        "result": "success",
                        "duration": 2671,
                        "order": 0,
                        "error_count": 0
                    }
                ],
                "errors_truncated": false
            },
            "logurl": "https://example.com/mylog.log",
            "logname": "my_custom_log"
        },
        "type": "json",
        "id": 10577808,
        "name": "text_log_summary",
        "job_id": 1774360
    }

Authentication handling
-----------------------
Authentication in the client is handled by the TreeherderAuth class.
To create a TreeherderAuth instance you have to provide your oauth key, secret and the repository you want to post data to
(e.g. mozilla-central).

.. code-block:: python

    from thclient import TreeherderAuth

    auth = TreeherderAuth('my-key', 'my-secret', 'mozilla-central')

This auth instance should then be passed to the TreeherderClient constructor, like so:

.. code-block:: python

    auth = TreeherderAuth('my-key', 'my-secret', 'mozilla-central')
    client = TreeherderClient(protocol='https', host='treeherder.mozilla.org', auth=auth)
    client.post_collection('mozilla-central', tac)
